# Math 41400 –  Numerical Methods, Fall 2022

Error analysis, solution of nonlinear equations, direct and iterative methods for solving linear systems, approximation of functions, numerical differentiation and integration, and numerical solution of ordinary differential equations.

## Project 1 

Write a program to solve a scalar equation f(x)=0 by Newton's method. (you might want to use the pseudocode on the book). Use your program to compute the root for each of the four equations in problem 10 on Page 139. Please hand in a hard copy of your program together with a sequence of approximation to the root: X0,X1,X2,...,Xn, begining with the initial guess X0, and the residual of the equation f(Xn), i.e. f(x0), f(x1), f(x2), .... (for output format see example on page 128 of the text). The residual of the equation f(Xn) should be extremely small if not zero. Otherwise Newton's method fails and you may need to choose a different X0.
Note: 
1) If the language you use has a function or subroutine for computing first derivative of a given function, you can use that function or subroutine. If not, you may compute the derivative by hand and plug into your code, just as you do for the function itself.
2) the values of nmax, delta, and epsilon in the text are your choices. You can play with them, but to begin with, you could choose nmax=1000, delta=10^-4; epsilon=10^-6.

## Project 2

Write a program to implement the Romberg Algorithm.
Input: f(x), an interval [a,b], N (the number of subintervals on the 
finest grid on level 0 is 2^N, therefore, N is usualy a small integer)
Output: the triangle generated by Romberg Algorithm.
Please hand in your report including
1) the triangles of data for N=2,3,4. Integrate 1/(1+x*x) from 0 to 1.
2) a hard copy of your code.

Note:
1) R(n,0) (0<= n <= N) means the approximation of applying trapezoid rule on 2^n equally spaced subintervals. n is the row index starting from 0, ending at N.
2) a triangle with a specific value of N for the project will have the first column as R(0,0), R(1,0), ..., R(N,0) and the last column as R(N,N).(there are in total N+1 rows and N+1 columns)
3) In the example of the text on page 219 , n should be 4, not 5. Otherwise, the text printed one less row.

## Project 3
Write a program to solve an diagonally dominated tridiagonal system Ax = b,
where A is tridiagonal using the algorithm in section 2.3.
Input: four one-dimensional arrays a,d,c,b
Output: the solution array x and residual r=Ax-b.
Solve the problem 6 on page 111 using vector b as [1,2,3,...,50]^T.

